Change BCS description w.r.t to IVA and add new flag in xml to indicate requirement on intermediate input smoothness (#1047)
modelica/fmi-standard: docs/2_4_common_co-simulation.adoc

==== Intermediate Variable Access [[intermediate-variable-access]]

A Co-Simulation FMU can provide values for its <<output>> variables at intermediate points between two consecutive communication points, and is able to accept new values for <<input>> variables at these intermediate points.
This is typically required when the FMU uses a numerical solver to integrate the FMU's internal state between communication points in <<fmi3DoStep>>.
This numerical solver assumes that the inputs are continuous in the integration interval, dictacted by <<fmi3DoStep>>.
In FMI 2.0 Co-simulation, the intermediate inputs are provided by the use of extrapolations.
The intermediate variable access functions allows the FMU to receive inputs, and provide outputs, directly to the master, in those intermediate time points.

Due to the way numerical solvers estimate and correct the approximation error, these intermediate <<output>> values may be tentative or may be final.

> It is possible for the FMU to inform the master whether the internal solver is in a tentative state, meaning that the output values computed from that state are also tentative, or if the internal solver has successfully completed the integration step, meaning that the FMU's internal state is final, and will never be change by the normal in the current execution of <<fmi3DoStep>>.

Author: What is the better wording: "tentative" or "temporary" solver states?

Reviewer: I liked tentative, because it represents a attempt of the numerical solver for a possible state.
From the dictionary.
Tentative: not certain or fixed; provisional.
Temporary: lasting for only a limited period of time; not permanent.

Author: OK tentative is fine

If the internal integration step has successfully completed, the master can forward intermediate outputs to other FMUs, where they can be used, for e.g., for extrapolation, interpolation, filtering or asynchronous co-simulation.

> For tentative output values, the master must not forward these values to other FMUs.

Author: In yesterday's discussion I think we concluded not to explicitely forbid this in normative text, but explain that one cannot rely on these values.

Reviewer: Ah ok! Sorry for that! I'll revert this asap!

The FMU requests updated intermediate <<input>> values for continuous variables every time they are required by the internal solver.
This can be either at tentative solver states or after successful integration steps.

Combinations of the above use cases are also allowed.

Access to intermediate variables enables advanced Co-Simulation with interpolation/extrapolation techniques (such as polynomial extrapolation, TLM co-simulation, anti-alias filtering, smoothing of input) +
Moreover, this enables the same input approximation that was possible in FMI 2.0 with `fmi2SetInputDerivatives`, now evaluating the approximation polynomial and not within the FMU as in FMI 2.0.

Intermediate variable access can be activated in all Co-Simulation interface types, if the FMU and the master, support it.

<<figure-intermediate-variable-access>> summarizes the above description.

> It illustrates that multiple intermediate internal solver steps, distinguishing between the final ones (with black-filled circles) and tentative ones (with white-filled circles). It distinguishes the level of trust that can be placed in the tentative outputs (with dashed arrows) and in final outputs (with solid arrows).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It illustrates that there are different intermediate internal solver steps. There are final ones (black-filled circles) and tentative ones (white-filled circles). The vertical dashed arrows indicate that outputs retrieved during a tentative internal solver step are not final and might change, whereas the vertical solid arrows indicate that the retrieved outputs are final.
```

* `earlyReturnTime` is used to tell the FMU at what time to return early from the current <<fmi3DoStep>> (at the earliest), if the return value of <<earlyReturnRequested>> of <<fmi3CallbackIntermediateUpdate>> is `fmi3True`.
If the <<earlyReturnTime>> is greater than the last signaled <<intermediateUpdateTime>>, the FMU may integrate up to the time instant <<earlyReturnTime>>.

> When providing intermediate inputs to the FMU, it is important that the master provides the same input value for the same variable, at the same <<intermediateUpdateTime>>. In other words, it is required that the calculation of inputs to the FMU be deterministic.

Reviewer 3: Is that true also if an event occurs? That would be the same intermediateUpdateTime, but a different superdense time step.

Author: > 
> 
> Is that true also if an event occurs? That would be the same intermediateUpdateTime, but a different superdense time step.

Intermediate inputs are available only _within_ a communication interval, not at event times. So we are in step mode, and there is no super-dense time. Agreed?
